WINDOW RESIZE IMPROVEMENT

The problem, stated precisely

    A resize drag has two halves that cannot be simultaneous. The quad tracks the
    cursor immediately, the client's pixels arrive a round trip later. Today the
    error is absorbed by stretching the quad (set.resize_stretch), so the corner is
    always right and the content is stale and smeared. Turning the stretch off moves
    the error to the other side: the pixels are always right and the corner trails
    your hand.

    The drag logic in main.rs is already the right shape. It asks every frame, gates
    on the client having answered, recomputes the stretch against what the client
    actually committed so a mid-drag commit changes pixels without moving the corner,
    and learns min/max limits from monotone behaviour rather than from asks. None of
    the remaining latency lives there.

    What follows is ordered by value over effort. Do 1 and 2 first and measure before
    writing 3 onward, because they may be enough.


1. Flush this frame's configure and input before the blocking draw

    The flush at main.rs:963 is correctly placed for frame callbacks: it lands before
    the vsync-blocking draw on purpose, so a client renders concurrently with our page
    flip instead of waiting a refresh. Its comment says so.

    But the two things that matter for resize feel are sent later in the same
    iteration and therefore miss it:

        main.rs:1375   resize_toplevel, the configure for this frame's corner
        main.rs:1650   route_input, this frame's pointer and keyboard events

    Both sit in a local buffer until the next iteration reaches 963. In between is
    end_drawing at main.rs:1720, which on DRM is a blocking modeset, the longest wait
    in the frame. We compute the configure, hold it through the vblank, and hand it
    over as the next frame starts.

    Fix: a second flush after route_input and the resize block, immediately before
    begin_drawing at main.rs:1679.

        wl::state::flush(&mut server);
        ray::begin_drawing();

    Effect: the configure and the pointer events reach the client roughly a frame
    earlier, and the client gets the whole draw plus vblank interval to answer rather
    than starting after it.

    This is not resize specific. Every pointer motion, button and key we route is
    currently delivered a frame late. That is a frame off client input latency in
    general.

    The alternative is reordering so input poll, route_input and the resize ask all
    precede the frame callback batch, keeping a single flush. Cleaner to read, but
    route_input needs the camera and the window store current for hit testing and the
    draw depends on route_input, so the reorder is not free. Prefer the second flush
    unless the loop is being rearranged for other reasons.


2. Ask the client for its fast path

    resize_toplevel in wl/state.rs:309 sets only pending.size. Nothing in state.rs
    ever touches pending.states.

    Clients branch on xdg_toplevel::State::Resizing. Without it, GTK, Qt and Chromium
    read each configure as a discrete window change and take the full relayout path.
    With it, they know they are inside a stream and take shortcuts, and they skip
    animations that make the trailing worse. We are currently always asking for
    correct and never for fast.

    Set it on every configure sent during a drag, clear it on release so the final
    configure gets the proper layout. That means resize_toplevel needs to know which
    of the two it is, e.g. a bool parameter, since the released ask at main.rs:1389
    and the settle ask want it off while the per-frame ask at main.rs:1375 wants it
    on.

        toplevel.with_pending_state(|pending| {
            pending.size = Some((w, h).into());
            if resizing {
                pending.states.set(xdg_toplevel::State::Resizing);
            } else {
                pending.states.unset(xdg_toplevel::State::Resizing);
            }
        });

    While in here: nothing sets Activated either, so no client ever knows it has
    keyboard focus. Separate issue, same two lines of the same function, visible as
    greyed out chrome and missing focus rings.


3. Predict instead of chase

    We already measure the latency. r.waited is how many frames the client took to
    answer the last ask.

    Ask for where the corner will be when that buffer lands, not where the cursor is
    now: target plus corner velocity times the measured answer latency. The residual
    stretch then converges toward 1.0 during a steady drag instead of sitting at a
    fixed error, and nothing waits for anything.

    Clamp the prediction on direction reversal, otherwise an overshoot fights the
    learned limits and the stuck counters read it as a refusal.

    Note that om_wm.conf sets resize_wait_frames = 0 while settings.rs defaults it to
    8. With 0, r.waited is always at least 1 by the time the gate is tested, so the
    condition at main.rs:1374 reduces to `moved` and the one-in-flight gate is
    effectively off in the shipped configuration. So the lever here really is
    prediction, not gating. Worth deciding which of the two defaults is the intended
    one while touching this.


4. Learn the size quantum, like we learn the limits

    RESIZE_PROGRESS_PX = 4.0 at main.rs:172 is a hardcoded stand-in for the fact that
    a terminal answers in whole character cells.

    The same trick that learns least/most can learn the step: take the differences
    between consecutive committed sizes during a drag and only ask on those
    boundaries. Every ask a client rounds away is a wasted round trip, and inside a
    one-in-flight window a wasted round trip is a frame of staleness.


5. What is drawn in the gap is a look, not a latency

    If the stretch still reads badly on a slow client, the remaining fix is what fills
    the gap, not when it arrives. Scaling resamples glyphs, which is why the artefact
    is loudest on terminals.

    The alternative: keep the texture at 1:1 anchored to the fixed corner, fill the
    uncovered strips from the edge pixels when growing, crop them when shrinking. The
    corner still tracks the cursor exactly and text stays crisp. The cost is that a
    client with bottom-right chrome shows that chrome in the wrong place until it
    catches up, where a scale keeps it proportionally placed.

    Text wants crop, chrome wants scale, so this is a third value on
    set.resize_stretch rather than a replacement for it.


6. Measure it

    Add ask-to-answer frames to the per-window debug labels (the ones from devlog 12).
    A client that answers in one frame should probably be driven synchronously with no
    stretch at all, since that is the conventional behaviour and it would feel exact.
    A client that answers in five needs everything above. Right now we cannot tell
    which client is which, so the policy has to be one size fits all.


Stale comment to fix while in here

    render.rs:75 says the drag scales the quad and "ask nothing, then ask once on
    release". main.rs does the opposite: it asks every frame and asks again on
    release. The Resize doc comment at main.rs:106 is the accurate one.
